name$ text
constructs$ cauldron$ A cauldron is a round metal pot used for cooking. They are an essential item for most rich and poor households.
constructs$ hearth$ A hearth is where a fire is typically kept in a household for cooking and heating. They were usually using a horizontal hearthstone and varying features such as a fireplace, oven, smoke hood or chimney.
constructs$ larder$ A larder is a cool room, used for storing food before use. It is used to store bread, pastries, butter, milk or meats.
constructs$ mortar and pestle$ A mortar and pestle are a key part of every pharmacist's and apothecary’s equipment. They are used to pound and mash medical plants and herbs and grind ingredients used in medical treatments.
constructs$ sword$ The word sword comes from the Old English word sweord which means “to wound” or  “to cut”. Swords are typically for wealthy men of high status and armoured knights.
folklore$ witch$ A witch is a practitioner of magic without affiliation to a kingdom or church. It is believed by some that they can summon evil spirits to harm others because of this they are often blamed for misfortunes such as a bad harvest or unexpected death, leading to witch hunts.
invertebrates$ cricket$ There are 23 species of crickets in the Albion many of which are found in the woodlands where their colour allows them to blend in. Some crickets can jump 20 times their body length although they normally prefer to walk away from threats.
invertebrates$ wasp$ Despite their bad reputation wasps are important pollinators and pest controllers. They’re their nests out of paper which is made by the queen chewing up wood. Adults feed off of high-energy foods such as nectar, rotting fruit and sugar, while larvae only eat meat from invertebrates which the adults provide.
mammal$ brown rat$ The brown rat is an incredibly adaptable animal that can be found all over Albion in any habitat as long as there is shelter and food. They are omnivores and will eat almost anything such as fruit, insects, eggs, and food waste.
mammal$ common shrew$ Shrews live active lives, eating various invertebrates including earthworms and spiders every 2-3 hours to survive. They are territorial and aggressive, sometimes heard fighting in high-pitched squeaks.
mammal$ european hedgehog$ Famous for its spiny back the hedgehog is well-liked but gardeners for preying on beetles and worms. When they feel threatened they curl up into a ball using the muscles in their back to raise their spines.
mammal$ field vole$ Field voles are very common in grasslands, heathlands and moorlands as they are not great climbers. They prefer to move along the ground in a network of runs that lead to their burrows. Their diet includes seeds, roots and leaves.
mammal$ red fox$ Foxes are nocturnal animals with an omnivorous diet of birds, frogs and various fruits. Foxes live in a burrow system called an “earth” and scent-mark their territories using urine, creating a very strong and recognisable odour.
mammal$ red squirrel$ Typically found in woodland they feed on various nuts and fruit. Red squirrels make a nest in a canopy made from twigs, leaves and bark called a drey.
mammal$ mole$ Moles are rarely seen since they often spend their entire lives underground hunting for earthworms and crop-eating grubs. By digging the earth with their shovel-like claws, moles aerate the earth making the soil more healthy. Their tunnels also improve soil drainage preventing puddles and flooding.
mammal$ weasel$ Weasels are the smallest carnivore in Albion. Their size, agility and flexibility allow them to enter burrows and snow tunnels to make short small prey.
mammal$ wood mouse$ Sometimes called the long-tailed field mouse, the wood mouse is one of the most widespread rodents in Albion. They will store berries and seeds throughout autumn.
plants$ bramble$ A bramble or “blackberry” is a thorny shrub from the rose family that provides food and shelter for various animals such as rodents and birds. It grows in various habitats including woodlands. It will have juicy black fruits through autumn, these can be picked and eaten, just remember to take only what you need.
plants$ plantain$ Considered a weed for growing in any location where there is soil, this wide range of inhabitable habitats makes the plant very common. It is very effective at treating nettle stings and bug bites/stings.
